So, welcome back,
and last lecture we talked about just a basic intro to metrics,
so what metrics are, they're just a way to measure stuff.
It's a number that is a measurement that tells you something
about your product, and it's a huge integral
part of product management, because it's the way that we are basically knowing if we're doing things right or not.
So, in this lecture, we're going to chat a little bit
about some real world examples,
and it's basically just going to be me talking about a couple
of companies and some of the metrics that
they track, and then afterwards we'll talk about
a couple of similarities between these companies.
So, the first example is Twitter, and they have some
growth metrics that a few other companies do as well,
which are total new users per month, or per week,
or however, they can slice it up however they want,
then you have monthly active users, probably also daily active users, and then probably activated users as well per month.
And we'll talk a little bit more about that
a little bit later in this section.
So then they have some engagement metrics as well,
things like the multiple log ins per day, probably
time spent looking at Twitter, either the app or the web site,
then they have things like number of tweets
sent, and then, per user, you know, on average, and then
they have probably the average number of likes and
the average number of retweets, and then
probably also the average number of follows,
so they have a good idea of the social activity going on,
and then they would also have probably the
number of messages sent, the private messages in their
direct messaging portion of the site and the app.
So, the second example would be YouTube, and YouTube,
in many other companies you're going to have the same
type of growth metrics that we already talked about with Twitter.
So you have your monthly active users,
you've got your new users, your activated users, your daily active users, but where a lot of tech companies
end up differing is their engagement metrics.
And, again, we're going to talk about the difference
between growth and engagement in another lecture.
But, for now, just understand that most companies will
have similar metrics and then they'll have some that
are completely different from any other company.
So, on the YouTube example, they probably
have stuff that Twitter doesn't, like video views,
first of all, per user, like how many videos did each user watch on average, and then they would have some criteria inside of that,
like, "Okay, they must have watched at least 30
seconds of a video in order to call it a view."
And that's an indicator of quality or a conservative
indicator for them, basically letting them know
that this person is actually watching this video.
Secondly, for YouTube, they will probably have
an average viewing time overall per user.
So, you could have someone that watched 20 videos,
but if each one of those videos was one and a half
minutes long, that's not as valuable as having someone
that watched one video which was three hours long,
like a documentary or something.
And notice that these are specific to YouTube.
Okay, so then we have our third example, which is the favorite example, Facebook, and Facebook's got some really
interesting engagement metrics. Again, on the other metrics,
the growth ones, they're going to have the
same sort of stuff that most people do,
most companies, like, you know, new users, and monthly actives, and so on, but engagement-wise, they have some
pretty interesting ones.
I've seen some stuff online that talks about them
having metrics like position clicks on the news
feed, and that basically means they are tracking which position on average did a person engage with in their news feed.
So let's say you have, you open the Facebook app and
you have, like, something at the top of your news
feed from one of your friends, and you have, you know,
10 other things under that, and you engage, or you
click on, or you like, or you comment on
the one that's like the fifth position down.
Well, they actually think that's bad.
They want you to engage with the one that's the first.
And the reason they do that is because it's
a measurement for them of relevancy.
So they, basically, in their mind, they want you
to see the very most relevant thing,
the thing you want to engage with, or comment on,
or like, at the very top of your news feed.
So of course they track where you're clicking, or where
you're engaging, or where you're watching the videos
at, because if it's too far down the page, then
they're not doing a good enough job of ranking your
news feed based on your interests.
So, other than that, they're going to have some metrics like, obviously, the messages sent, and then time spent on site.
And the interesting thing about Facebook is that they
also own WhatsApp and Instagram, things like that,
so if you leave Facebook and go to WhatsApp, or leave
Facebook and go to Instagram, that's okay with them,
because they own those properties as well,
and you're still basically inside of their universe of companies.
So then they're also going to have the number of likes
that you make on some, on average per day on other
people's items in the news feed or wherever.
And then, of course, they are also going to be tracking things like the average number of likes that you as a user get per post.
So, on average, some people have a higher
average like count per post.
Obviously, if they're more popular or whatever, more famous,
or celebrities, that sort of thing, and then
the interesting thing about that is, from what I've read,
they actually try to keep these numbers relatively
stable, and they also don't want anyone to not have
any likes at all, or any comments at all, because if
you post something, and you're sharing it with your network,
and then no one likes it or comments on it,
then you're less likely to come back and post again.
And, of course, they want you to do that.
So what they'll do is apparently sort of hold your
item in the news feed in front of people longer so
that, you know, people will see it and maybe actually
interact with it, until you get to some minimum threshold,
and at that point, you know, then it will start moving
down the news feed as a normal item.
But that way, you're like "Oh, hey, I got some likes,
I'll come and do this again."
So that's pretty interesting.
Okay.
So, just to recap real quick.
Each company is going to have a lot of the same metrics as others on things like new users, and active users, and all of that.
But when it comes to engagement, they're probably
going to have some metrics that are specific to
their company, or their industry,
or what they're trying to get you to do,
and they're really tracking those things closely.
So I know I've been talking a lot about
growth versus engagement metrics.
and those are different categories,
and in the next lecture we're going to talk about these categories.
So I will see you there, and pay attention
because it's an important one.